# DesignDoc 

Hypothesis: Are visual instructions just as clear as written instructions? 
 
From obvserving the playtesters, majority understood the photo instructions at the beginning of each level. However, each playtester took a good 30 seconds to a minute to understand that the photos were actually instructions of what to do. This was beneficial to the game because it acted as a mini puzzle within a larger puzzle. One out of five of the playtesters misinterpreted the first photo instruction as a maze rather than a demonstration of how to achieve the goal of the game. The second level, with the maze, was clear to all playtesters. A third of the playtesters tried to memorize the photo instruction of the maze although it was not a direct reflection of the maze within the game. I realized that this was confusing and didn't consider players to actually refer to the image to solve the level. All playtesters mentioned that the textures of level 1 and level 2 added a layer of difficulty as it was disorienting and messed around with the players' initial perceptions. The only photo instruction that seemed to not be comprehensible was the one for the second level. A lot of players did not understand that the arrows meant that the blocks were moving back and forth. Instead all of the playtesters thought that the arrows were directions to navigate through a second maze. 
If I were to adjust or add anything to the prototype, I would make the image instructions clues as to how to solve the level. For example, for level 1, I would make the maze photo a direct reflection of the maze that is presented in the level. I would also find better symbols for level 2 to demonstrate that the blocks are actually moving objects that act as obstacles to dodge. Overall, I believe that my hypothesis was succesfully answered with positive feedback as all playtesters caught on within 30 seconds to a minute. 
